hannah is excited to be going to college
she couldn't wait to get out of her
parents house to prove to them that
she's an adult and to prove to her new
friends that she belongs she heads to a
campus party where she sees a guy that
she has a crush on let's call him Mike
the next day Hanna wakes up with a
pounding headache she can only remember
the night and flashes but what she does
remember is throwing up in the hall
outside Mike's room and staring at the
wall silently while he was inside her
wanting it to stop
then Shaklee stumbling home she doesn't
feel good about what happens but she
thinks maybe this is just what sex in
college is one in five women and one in
13 men will be sexually assaulted at
some point during their college career
in the United States less than 10% will
ever report their assault to their
school or to the police and those who do
on average wait 11 months to make their
report Hanna initially just feels like
dealing with what happened on her own
but when she sees Mike taking girls home
from parties she's worried about them
after graduation
Hanna learns that she was one of five
women who might did the exact same thing
- and this is not an unlikely scenario
because 90% of sexual assaults are
committed by repeat offenders but with
such low reporting rates it's fairly
unlikely that even repeat perpetrators
will be reported much less anything
happen if they are in fact only 6% of
assaults reported to the police and with
the assailant spending a single day in
prison meaning there's a 99% chance that
they'll get away with it this means
there's practically no deterrent
assault in the United States now I'm an
infectious disease epidemiologist by
training I'm interested in systems and
networks and where we can concentrate
our resources to do the most good so
this to me is a tragic but a solvable
problem so when the issue of campus
assaults started hitting the news a few
years ago it felt like a unique
opportunity to make a change and so we
did we started by talking to college
survivors and what they wish they'd have
in college is pretty simple they wanted
a website one they could use at the time
and place that felt safest to them with
clearly written information about their
reporting options with the ability to
electronically report their assault
rather than having the first step to go
in to talk to someone who may or may not
believe them with the option to create a
secure time stamp document of what
happened to them preserving evidence
even if they don't want to report yet
and lastly and perhaps most critically
with the ability to report their assault
only as someone else reported the same
assailant
you see knowing that you weren't the
only one changes everything it changes
the way you frame your own experience it
changes the way you think about your
perpetrator it means that if you do come
forward you'll have someone else's back
and they'll have yours we created a
website that actually does this and we
launched it two months ago we launched
in August on to college campuses and we
included a unique matching system where
Mike's first victim had come forward
saved her record and entered into the
matching system and named Mike and Mike
second victim had done the same thing a
few months later they would have matched
and the verified contact information of
both survivors would have been sent to
the authorities at the same time for
investigation and follow-up if a system
like this had existed for hannah and her
peers it's more likely that they'd have
reported that they'd have been believed
and that Mike would have been kicked off
campus gone to jail or at least gotten
the help that he needed
and if we were able to stop repeat
offenders like Mike after just their
second assault following a match
survivors like Hannah would never even
be assaulted in the first place we could
prevent 59% of sexual assaults just by
stopping repeat perpetrators earlier on
and because we're creating a real
deterrent to assault for perhaps the
first time maybe the Mike's the world
would never even try to assault anyone
the type of system I'm describing the
type of system that survivors want is a
type of information escrow meaning an
entity that holds on to information for
you and only releases it to a third
party when certain pre agreed-upon
conditions are met such as a match the
application that we built is for college
campuses but the same type of system
could be used in the military or even
the workplace we don't have to live in a
world where 99% of rapists get away with
it we can create one where those who do
wrong are held accountable where
survivors get the support and justice
they deserve where the authorities get
the information they need and where
there's a real deterrent to violating
the rights of another human being thank
you